---
layout: post
title: "Gource"
date: 2017-05-30 15:39:00 -0400
tags: visualization git gource
visible: true
comments: true
math: false
---


I had seen visuzlizations of git repositories and thought I would try my hand with gource. It turned out to be way easier than expected!

I found <a href="https://opensource.com/business/16/8/intro-to-gource">this post</a> which explained several nuances of the gource tool. But this only rendered the video live on my desktop, and I needed a tool to process the output stream into a video format for uploading. So I found <a href="https://gist.github.com/qiaoxueshi/5910150">this gist</a> on how to pipe the output into the avconv tool.

Putting the two together, I created this visualization in minutes! It really pays off to use version control systems, because there are so many tools available that allow you to interact within them for practical and even creative purposes beyond just hosting code.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0ZpDSq1KIXc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

What is interesting about this project, is how I managed to evolve the repository over the last two years. I started off with an intial version of software which was eventually replaced by a second version in another repository. Following this up, there were a few side projects that came out of the newly running services, so I had another two repositories that contained application code. Sometime around last year, I merged the projects using ```git subtree```. This was a pretty interesting modification that required lots of architectural changes along the way. But in the end, the project structure became much more resilient and easier to manage.

The DOMS project was my first real experience with managing software through a version control system beyond just a few commits. It is amazing how useful it is and how integral it has become to my devlopment. I recommend every programmer, especially students, to learn how to use version control tools. They will redefine how you program, and take your productivity to the next level.
